I hope you will be ready to own publicly, whenever you shall be           
called to it, that by your great and frequent urgency you prevailed on      
me to publish a very loose and uncorrect account of my travels; with        
direction to hire some young gentlemen of either university to put          
them in order, and correct the style, as my cousin Dampier did by my        
advice, in his book called A Voyage round the World. But I do not           
remember I gave you power to consent that any thing should be omitted,      
and much less that any thing should be inserted: therefore, as to           
the latter, I do here renounce every thing of that kind;                    
particularly a paragraph about her Majesty the late Queen Anne, of          
most pious and glorious memory; although I did reverence and esteem         
her more than any of human species. But you, or your interpolator,          
ought to have considered, that as it was not my inclination, so was it      
not decent to praise any animal of our composition before my master         
Houyhnhnm: and besides the fact was altogether false; for to my             
knowledge, being in England during some part of her Majesty's reign,        
she did govern by a chief minister; nay, even by two successively; the      
first whereof was the Lord of Godolphin, and the second the Lord of         
Oxford; so that you have made me say the thing that was not. Likewise,      
in the account of the Academy of Projectors, and several passages of        
my discourse to my master Houyhnhnm, you have either omitted some           
material circumstances, or minced or changed them in such a manner,         
that I do hardly know my own work. When I formerly hinted to you            
something of this in a letter, you were pleased to answer that you          
were afraid of giving offense; that people in power were very watchful      
over the press, and apt not only to interpret, but to punish every          
thing which looked like an innuendo (as I think you called it). But         
pray, how could that which I spoke so many years ago, and at about          
five thousand leagues distance, in another reign, be applied to any of      
the Yahoos who now are said to govern the herd; especially at a time        
when I little thought on or feared the unhappiness of living under          
them? Have not I the most reason to complain, when I see these very         
Yahoos carried by Houyhnhnms in a vehicle, as if these were brutes,         
and those the rational creatures? And indeed, to avoid so monstrous         
and detestable a sight was one principal motive of my retirement            
hither.                                                                     
  Thus much I thought proper to tell you in relation to yourself,           
and to the trust I reposed in you.                                          
  I do in the next place complain of my own great want of judgement,        
in being prevailed upon by the entreaties and false reasonings of           
you and some others, very much against my own opinion, to suffer my         
travels to be published. Pray bring to your mind how often I desired        
you to consider, when you insisted on the motive of public good;            
that the Yahoos were a species of animals utterly incapable of              
amendment by precepts or examples: and so it hath proved; for               
instead of seeing a full stop put to all abuses and corruptions, at         
least in this little island, as I had reason to expect: behold,             
after above six months warning, I cannot learn that my book hath            
produced one single effect according to my intentions: I desired you        
would let me know by a letter, when party and faction were                  
extinguished; judges learned and upright; pleaders honest and               
modest, with some tincture of common sense; and Smithfield blazing          
with pyramids of lawbooks; the young nobility's education entirely          
changed; the physicians banished; the female Yahoos abounding in            
virtue, honour, truth and good sense; courts and levees of great            
ministers thoroughly weeded and swept; wit, merit and learning              
rewarded; all disgracers of the press in prose and verse condemned          
to eat nothing but their own cotton, and quench their thirst with           
their own ink. These and a thousand other reformations, I firmly            
counted upon by your encouragement; as indeed they were plainly             
deducible from the precepts delivered in my book. And it must be owned      
that seven months were a sufficient time to correct every vice and          
folly to which Yahoos are subject, if their natures had been capable        
of the least disposition to virtue or wisdom: yet so far have you been      
from answering my expectation in any of your letters, that on the           
contrary you are loading our carrier every week with libels, and keys,      
and reflections, and memoirs, and second parts; wherein I see myself        
accused of reflecting upon great states-folk, of degrading human            
nature (for so they have still the confidence to style it), and of          
abusing the female sex. I find likewise that the writers of those           
bundles are not agreed among themselves; for some of them will not          
allow me to be author of my own travels; and others make me author          
of books to which I am wholly a stranger.                                   
  I find likewise that your printer hath been so careless as to             
confound the times, and mistake the dates of my several voyages and         
returns; neither assigning the true year, or the true month, or day of      
the month: and I hear the original manuscript is all destroyed since        
the publication of my book. Neither have I any copy left: however I         
have sent you some corrections, which you may insert, if ever there         
should be a second edition: and yet I cannot stand to them, but             
shall leave that matter to my judicious and candid readers, to              
adjust it as they please.                                                   
  I hear some of our sea-Yahoos find fault with my sea-language, as         
not proper in many parts, nor now in use. I cannot help it. In my           
first voyages, while I was young, I was instructed by the oldest            
mariners, and learned to speak as they did. But I have since found          
that the sea-Yahoos are apt, like the land ones, to become new-fangled      
in their words, which the latter change every year, insomuch as I           
remember upon each return to my own country their old dialect was so        
altered that I could hardly understand the new. And I observe, when         
any Yahoo comes from London out of curiosity visit me at my own house,      
we neither of us are able to deliver our conceptions in a manner            
intelligible to the other.
If the censure of Yahoos could any way affect me, I should have           
great reason to complain that some of them are so bold as to think          
my book of travels a mere fiction out of my own brain, and have gone        
so far as to drop hints that the Houyhnhnms and Yahoos have no more         
existence than the inhabitants of Utopia.                                   
  Indeed I must confess, that as to the people of Lilliput,                 
Brobdingrag (for so the word should have been spelt, and not                
erroneously Brobdingnag), and Laputa, I have never yet heard of any         
Yahoo so presumptuous as to dispute their being, or the facts I have        
related concerning them; because the truth immediately strikes every        
reader with conviction. And is there less probability in my account of      
the Houyhnhnms or Yahoos, when it is manifest as to the latter,             
there are so many thousands even in this city, who only differ from         
their brother brutes in Houyhnhnm-land, because they use a sort of a        
jabber, and do not go naked? I wrote for their amendment, and not           
their approbation. The united praise of the whole race would be of          
less consequence to me than the neighing of those two degenerate            
Houyhnhnms I keep in my stable; because from these, degenerate as they      
are, I still improve in some virtues, without any mixture of vice.          
  Do these miserable animals presume to think that I am so far              
degenerated as to defend my veracity? Yahoo as I am, it is well             
known through all Houyhnhnm-land, that by the instructions and example      
of my illustrious master I was able in the compass of two years             
(although I confess with the utmost difficulty) to remove that              
infernal habit of lying, shuffling, deceiving, and equivocating, so         
deeply rooted in the very souls of all my species, especially the           
Europeans.                                                                  
  I have other complaints to make upon this vexatious occasion; but         
I forbear troubling myself or you any further. I must freely                
confess, that since my last return some corruptions of my Yahoo nature      
have revived in me by conversing with a few of your species, and            
particularly those of my own family, by an unavoidable necessity; else      
I should never have attempted so absurd a project as that of reforming      
the Yahoo race in this kingdom; but I have now done with all visionary      
schemes for ever.
The author of these Travels, Mr. Lemuel Gulliver, is my ancient           
and intimate friend; there is likewise some relation between us by the      
mother's side. About three years ago Mr. Gulliver, growing weary of         
the concourse of curious people coming to him at his house in Redriff,      
made a small purchase of land, with a convenient house, near Newark in      
Nottinghamshire, his native country; where he now lives retired, yet        
in good esteem among his neighbors.                                         
  Although Mr. Gulliver was born in Nottinghamshire, where his              
father dwelt, yet I have heard him say his family came from                 
Oxfordshire; to confirm which, I have observed in the churchyard at         
Banbury, in that county, several tombs and monuments of the Gullivers.      
  Before he quitted Redriff, he left the custody of the following           
papers in my hands, with the liberty to dispose of them as I should         
think fit. I have carefully perused them three times: the style is          
very plain and simple; and the only fault I find is, that the               
author, after the manner of travelers, is a little too circumstantial.      
There is an air of truth apparent through the whole; and indeed the         
author was so distinguished for his veracity, that it became a sort of      
proverb among his neighbors at Redriff, when any one affirmed a thing,      
to say it was as true as if Mr. Gulliver had spoke it.                      
  By the advice of several worthy persons, to whom, with the                
author's permission, I communicated these papers, I now venture to          
send them into the world, hoping they may be at least, for some             
time, a better entertainment to our young noblemen than the common          
scribbles of politics and party.                                            
  This volume would have been at least twice as large, if I had not         
made bold to strike out innumerable passages relating to the winds and      
tides, as well as to the variations and bearings in the several             
voyages; together with the minute descriptions of the management of         
the ship in storms, in the style of sailors: likewise the account of        
the longitudes and latitudes; wherein I have reason to apprehend            
that Mr. Gulliver may be a little dissatisfied: but I was resolved          
to fit the work as much as possible to the general capacity of              
readers. However, if my own ignorance in sea-affairs shall have led me      
to commit some mistakes, I alone am answerable for them: and if any         
traveler hath a curiosity to see the whole work at large, as it came        
from the hand of the author, I shall be ready to gratify him.
return, as I suppose you would not wish her to see it. You make it
a rule, I know, not to discuss theology with women, and I am much
of your opinion. When Ellen was a girl I carefully attended to the
culture of her mind, and encouraged her to read works of philosophy
and science. But, though I saw that she possessed a vigorous
intellect, I did not dare to carry her beyond the limits of Theism.
I feared that for her my faith would be but a system of cold and
comfortless philosophy, and that if at some future time, in
adversity or suffering, a religion became necessary to her, she
would run no slight risk of falling into Superstition. I saved her
from that danger by teaching her to believe in a God, compared with
whom the God of the Bible is a very indifferent character. But I
need not say that my God, though a nobler conception, is just as
much a creature of fiction as the other. They are both made by
human heads, as idols are made by human hands; only, while the
people of the churches and the chapels worship an idol of brass, I
gave my daughter an idol of gold. I formed her a God of the purest
and noblest ideas, and she still believes it to be real. Of course,
some day or other she may discover the deception; and were she to
read the enclosed manuscript, she would, I think, cease to believe
in the Divine benevolence, and next would begin to suspect that the
Being called God is as much a fabulous creature as Jupiter, Mars,
or Apollo. And then comes the great question